Komodor Port docs addition (#2156)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/other/komodor.md

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import Prerequisites from "../templates/\_ocean_helm_prerequisites_block.mdx"
import AzurePremise from "../templates/\_ocean_azure_premise.mdx"
import DockerParameters from "./_komodor-docker-parameters.mdx"
import AdvancedConfig from '../../../generalTemplates/\_ocean_advanced_configuration_note.md'
import PortApiRegionTip from "/docs/generalTemplates/_port_region_parameter_explanation_template.md"
import OceanSaasInstallation from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/_ocean_saas_installation.mdx"
import OceanRealtimeInstallation from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/_ocean_realtime_installation.mdx"

# Komodor

> Port's Komodor integration allows you to model Komodor resources in your software catalog and ingest data into them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Port's Komodor integration allows you to model [Komodor](https://komodor.com/) resources in your software catalog and ingest data into them.
```

## Overview

> This integation allows you to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration allows you to:
```

> This integation allows you to:
> 
> - Map, organize, and sync your desired Komodor resources and their metadata in Port (See supported resources below)
> - Sync your Komodor resources and their metadata to Port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integation allows you to map, organize, and sync your desired Komodor resources and their metadata in Port. (See supported resources below)
```

### Supported Resources

> The resources that can be ingestd into Port are listed below.
> It is possible to modify the default mapping to references the fields in the API response, Dependent on your needs.
> 
> - [Services](https://api.komodor.com/api/docs/index.html#/Services/post_api_v2_services_search)
> - [Health Monitoring](https://help.komodor.com/hc/en-us/categories/22390793120274-Health-Management)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resources that can be ingested from Komodor into Port are listed below:
Depends on your specific needs, you can configure the default mapping to references the fields in the API response.

- [`Services`](https://api.komodor.com/api/docs/index.html#/Services/post_api_v2_services_search)
- [`Health Monitoring`](https://help.komodor.com/hc/en-us/categories/22390793120274-Health-Management)
```

## Prerequisites

> ### [Generate a Komodor Api Key](https://help.komodor.com/hc/en-us/articles/22434108566674-Using-the-Komodor-API)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate a Komodor Api Key
```

> 1. Log in to the [Komodor platfrom](https://app.komodor.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the [Komodor platfrom](https://app.komodor.com).
```

2. Access API Keys management page:

>    - Click your user profile on the top-right corner of the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click on your account profile or settings in the top-right corner of the dashboard.
```

>    - Click your user profile on the top-right corner of the platform.
>    - Select API Keys from the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click on your user profile on the top-right corner of the platform.
   - Select `API Keys` from the dropdown menu.
```

3. Generate a new API key:

>    - Click the Generate Key button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click the `Generate Key button`.
```

   - Provide a descriptive name for the API key to help you identify its purpose later (e.g., "Port.io api key").
4. Copy the token and save it in a secure location.

> 

Reviewer: To read more, visit [Komodor API key page](https://help.komodor.com/hc/en-us/articles/22434108566674-Using-the-Komodor-API)

> :::note
>  Your api key will inherit the permissions of the user it is created by.
>  Make sure that the user that created the key has view permissions for the resources you wish to ingest in Port (ideally full access). 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note API key permissions
Make sure the user who creates the API key has view permissions for the resources you wish to ingest into Port, since the API key inherits their permissions. (ideally full access)
:::
```

## Setup

> Choose the desired installation method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose one of the following installation methods:
```

  variables:
    IMAGE_NAME: ghcr.io/port-labs/port-ocean-$INTEGRATION_TYPE:$VERSION
  script:
    - |
      docker run -i --rm --platform=linux/amd64 \
        -e OCEAN__EVENT_LISTENER='{"type":"ONCE"}' \
        -e OCEAN__INITIALIZE_PORT_RESOURCES=true \
        -e OCEAN__INTEGRATION__CONFIG__KOMODOR_TOKEN=$OCEAN__INTEGRATION__CONFIG__KOMODOR_TOKEN \
        -e OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_ID=$OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_ID \
        -e OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_SECRET=$OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_SECRET \
        -e OCEAN__PORT__BASE_URL='https://api.getport.io' \
        $IMAGE_NAME

  rules: # Run only when changes are made to the main branch
    - if: '$CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == "main"'
```

</TabItem>

  </Tabs>
<PortApiRegionTip/>

<AdvancedConfig/>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Configuration

Port integrations use a [YAML mapping block](/build-your-software-catalog/customize-integrations/configure-mapping#configuration-structure) to ingest data from Komodor's API into Port.

The mapping makes use of the [JQ JSON processor](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/) to select, modify, concatenate, transform and perform other operations on existing fields and values from the integration API.

## Examples

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of blueprints and the relevant integration configurations:
```

              {
                "podName": "POD_NAME_1",
                "restarts": 607
              },
              {
                "podName": "POD_NAME_2",
                "restarts": 170
              },
              {
                "podName": "POD_NAME_3",
                "restarts": 57
              },
              {
                "podName": "POD_NAME_4",
                "restarts": 53
              },
              {
                "podName": "POD_NAME_5",
                "restarts": 22
              }
            ],
            "numRestartsOnTimeseries": 909,
            "numRestartsOnDB": 1825
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "komodor_link": "https://app.komodor.com/health/risks/drawer?checkCategory=workload-health&checkType=restartingContainers&violationId=UID&utmSource=port",
    "created_at": "2025-03-20T05:11:33Z",
    "last_evaluated_at": "2025-03-30T00:00:00Z",
    "check_type": "restartingContainers",
    "workload_type": "WORKLOAD_KIND",
    "cluster_name": "CLUSTER_NAME",
    "namespace_name": "NAMESPACE_NAME",
    "workload_name": "NAME"
  },
  "relations": {
    "service": [
      "ServiceUID"
    ]
  }
}
```

</details>

> ## Creating relations between komodor service and Ports k8s exporter workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Relating Komodor service and Port's k8s exporter workload
```

#### Prequesites 

- Have Komodor integration installed.
- Have Port's k8s exporter integration installed on your cluster

> - Have komodor agent installed on your cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have Komodor agent installed on your cluster
```

> 1. In port, navigate to the komodor integration, and then click on it and scroll to the Mapping section
> 2. Add the following mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [data sources page](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-sources) of your portal.

2. Under `Exporters`, click on the Komodor integration.

3.  A window will open containing the default YAML configuration of your integration.

4. In the bottom-left corner you can modify the configuration to suit your needs, by adding/removing entries.

5. Copy the following configuration and paste it in the editor, then click `Save & Resync`:
```

```yaml title="mapping"
  - kind: komodorService
    selector:
      query: 'true'
    port:
      entity:
        mappings:
          identifier: .kind + "-" + .cluster + "-" + .namespace + "-" + .service
          blueprint: '"komodorService"'
          properties: {}
          relations:

>             Workload: .service + "-" + .kind + "-" + .namespace + "-" + .cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            workload: .service + "-" + .kind + "-" + .namespace + "-" + .cluster
```

```
- Note: This is as another kind to the mapping, not as a replacement or addition to the existing komodorService kind.
- This will ensure that komodor service will find and create relations with the k8s workload that exists in port, while not failing to injest data from any cluster you do not have Port k8s exporter installed on.
3. Click `Save & Resync`
4. Navigate to the Data model tab (still in Ports builder section)
5. Click on the Komodor Service blueprint, and modify it so the json ends up having the following relations value: 
```json title="blueprint"
{
  "relations": {

>     "Workload": {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "workload": {
```
